Domain - E-commerce

Context - Everyday a million products are being recommended to users based on
popularity and other metrics on e-commerce websites. The most popular e-commerce
website boosts average order value by 50%, increases revenues by 300%, and
improves conversion. In addition to being a powerful tool for increasing revenues,
product recommendations are so essential that customers now expect to see similar
features on all other eCommerce sites.
Data Description -
Data columns- First three columns are userId, productId, and ratings and the fourth
column is timestamp. You can discard the timestamp column as in this case you may
not need to use it.
Source - Amazon Reviews data (http://jmcauley.ucsd.edu/data/amazon/) The
repository has several datasets. For this case study, we are using the Electronics
dataset.
Learning Outcomes -
● Exploratory Data Analysis
● Data Wrangling
● Build a Popularity recommender model
● Build Collaborative Filtering model

Objective - To make a recommendation system that recommends at least five(5)
new products based on the user's habits.

Steps and tasks -
1. Read and explore the given dataset. ( Rename column/add headers, plot
histograms, find data characteristics) ( 13 Marks)
2. Build Popularity Recommender model. ( 10 marks)
3. Split the data randomly into a train and test dataset. ( For example, split it in
70/30 ratio) ( 2 marks)
4. Build Collaborative Filtering model. ( 10 marks)
5. Evaluate the above model. ( Once the model is trained on the training data, it
can be used to compute the error (like RMSE) on predictions made on the test
data.) You can also use a different method to evaluate the models. ( 5 marks)
6. Get top - K ( K = 5) recommendations. Since our goal is to recommend new
products to each user based on his/her habits, we will recommend 5 new
products. ( 10 marks)
7. Summarise your insights. ( 10 marks)
Please Note -
● If you are facing any memory issue while working on this project, create a small
subset (Let’s say 10% of data) and work on it.
● If you are stuck at the model evaluation part of this project.
Please refer to below links -
1. https://surprise.readthedocs.io/en/stable/accuracy.html
2. http://surpriselib.com/ - Getting started, example
